### Question

Are you just protecting your system at the Internet boundary?

### Answer

In the practice of most enterprises, it is outdated to keep everything in a boundary and assume that they are safe. The drawbridge for the castle is same as the firewall for our internal network and most of the time it doesn't work well for a ninja. If someone breaks into your internal network, you will lose everything basically. In past we assume the internal network is safe, which contains a lot of heavy services and resources, they don't have constraint with least privilege and most of them share the credentials, things could be worse if someone hijacks a server and he just wants to steal your most important asset - data and leave quietly, nobody knows.

The good news is in modern days, we don't believe a firewall or a gateway (drawbridge) based on 4 layer network is secure enough and it's time to review your internal network settings and the security mechanisms in instance level and application level. In microservice scope, system breaks into single responsibility services and each service manages its own resources, obviously the attack surface is wider than monolithic, and you must consider how to monitor the security of these services. Basically, our system is deployed in the cloud, the platform build-in security capabilities are important to use, and the application level security is based on your own implementation.

### Reference
- [Defense in depth](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Defense_in_depth_(computing))
- [Security in the Cloud](https://www.schneier.com/blog/archives/2006/02/security_in_the.html)
- [BeyondCorp: A New Approach to Enterprise Security](https://ai.google/research/pubs/pub43231)
