### Question

How do you actively identify the private and sensitive data in your database?

### Answer

Often the private and sensitive data in our system is called PII (personally identifiable information), the name shows how we define this information, if you find the information could identify to a specified individual, that could be the PII and you must take care.  As the GDPR has implemented in May 2018, we are facing a huge challenge to protect user's privacy, there are a lot of laws in the different region have emphasized the importance of personal sensitive data.  If the PII data is found in breach, the damage is much more than the others, comes with legal fines and public relations consumption, and you must consider the reputation decrease.

We do need these privacy data to continue our business, I must know the mobile number to make a call, and some mandatory factors force us must pay attention and review these data in our system.

To identify these sensitive data in a specified scope is not difficult, you can review the tables in few databases and build a plan to clean up or replace.  But the hardest part is do we have confidence that we get every sensitive data in our system?  We all know data is hard to vanish after created, these sensitive data could be found in the audit report, log center, someone's excel files anywhere, it could be worse because in microservice, we recommend to split the monolithic database into small instances, maybe you are facing more than 20 database instances.  Protect the sensitive data in this complicated scenario is a long-term work.

### Reference
- [GDPR](https://eugdpr.org/)
- [PII](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Personally_identifiable_information)
- [Cost of a Data Breach Study 2018](https://www.ibm.com/security/data-breach)
