### Question

Can your services request any data from each other, or only the data of a user that has given their authority?

### Answer

I think most people they want the service works as the second part of this question, let's review the monolithic application first, most time the session presents the user's authority, and inside we have a facade to valid and each controller will return the data only belongs to the current user, using session is much simpler in monolithic (which is the demon in a distribution system).  Absolutely we want each service could have the same abilities because each service in microservice must be a service (that means application!), it should be stand-alone, single responsibility, and self-managed.

So let's consider the challenges we are facing, first, we should make sure each service doesn't have such as enumeration vulnerability, second we must get the user's authority evidence to find out the data we should return.  We can't use a centralized session storage or a authentication/authorization service (many practices recommend to use Redis clusters to store the session and share to all systems, which you should get rid of that, we can't afford to depend on a centralized resource), verify the request is unacceptable for each service, so the only solution makes this progress distributed, and the most common practice is using JWT (or the other claim based token) and security sidecar.

A typical flow is user gets the access token from somewhere, saves it into browser cookie with HTTP-only and secure, then invokes the backend service with that.  The BFF receives the request, verify the token and get user's claims, and starts to invoke the downstream services and forward that token.  Each service reproduces the same progress to verify and find out the resource is matching user's role if not just return 401 and upstream will deal that.  The whole progress could be implemented in the sidecar (we always use nginx) to make it transparent to the real service, and the sidecar could update the public key from a token issuer, and with security logging and auditing.  Don't invent a new library on this, it could be worse if your servers are written in different languages. 

### Reference

- [Pros and Cons of JWT](https://medium.com/@rahulgolwalkar/pros-and-cons-in-using-jwt-json-web-tokens-196ac6d41fb4)
- [Stateless tokens](https://scotch.io/tutorials/the-ins-and-outs-of-token-based-authentication)
- [Force logout?](https://github.com/auth0/node-jsonwebtoken/issues/375)

