### Question

Do you share a single database login across all your services?

### Answer

I've seen a lot of applications announced itself practices microservice, sadly most of them are still sharing a single database, even the developers who build this application considered to separate the monolithic database in future.  Share a monolithic database is a totally wrong pattern in microservice, we should avoid the centralized resources in native, but here we don't talk the pros or cons, we just talk about the security problems.

I think for the answer to this question is pretty clear, you must not share the database login credentials for all your services, things could be worse if the credentials are stored in your codebase in plaintext (in my experience, someone stored the credentials in Evernote and shared it to all the team members).  It's easy to a bad guy to stolen everything if one service has an injection vulnerability.

It's not hard to fix, just review the data persistence in patience and careful before you take action.  You need to encrypt the credentials in your service's configuration first and assign each service different database user which also is a part to prepare split the monolithic database.  We know the destination is using multiple databases, but for the security, the first step is reinforcing as the always.

### Reference

- [How to break a Monolith into Microservices from Martin Fowler](https://martinfowler.com/articles/break-monolith-into-microservices.html)
- [A coursera about misconfiguration](https://www.coursera.org/lecture/cyber-threats-attack-vectors/misconfiguration-4Pvmi)
- [Chris Richardson's Microservices Database Design](https://microservices.io/patterns/data/database-per-service.html)
