### Question

If an attacker got hold of one service’s database credentials, how much data would they get access to?

### Answer

Even the credentials are read-only permission, we basically lose everything on it.  But the not a really bad news in microservice scope, we often divide the huge database into several databases and each service manages the own resources, which include the databases.  Another important thing is the service domain, we don't store full information in a single database, for example, the order service and its database often persists the order ids and related user ids, but for the user profile and product detail, often hold them in the other services.  If the attacker could access one database, he only gets the metadata only and it could reduce the damage of business in the data losing.

Although we split huge databases into different service scope, the credentials should be taken care and the access management is important, so please review your database client security group.  We only allow the product instances access to the database, and no one has permission to access the product instances even through a bastion.  You also need to pay more attention to the database snapshots, in my practice, we have 7 different databases and the snapshot management is hard.  The last thing, keep the credentials in safe, maybe encrypt it with AWS KMS, or the other configuration service.

### Reference

- [Principle of least privilege](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Principle_of_least_privilege)
- [AWS RDS Security Group](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/UserGuide/Overview.RDSSecurityGroups.html)
- [Azure Configuration Service](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/sccm/core/servers/deploy/configure/azure-services-wizard)
