### Question

If an attacker got hold of one service’s messaging credentials, how much data could they get access to? 

### Answer

If the guy gets the middleware credentials, we assume he could pass your network boundary and steal data from middleware.  So this question becomes how to prevent data losing, first we don't recommend using a super big middleware in Microservice implementation, many enterprises they are shocked by a new streams like Apache Kafka or AWS Kinesis, then they are using them as the new ESB, so if the hacker could access it, everything will be taken.

In our practice, separate the middleware resources is very important and with strict access control, a mail sender will use the SQS just from email content transfer and that sender should only have permission to receive the message.  We use things like AWS IAM to control which instance could get data from this queue, and reject the other clients.  We could also block the SSH to the instance to make sure no one could log in to the machine.  So, if you have the credential, the other places to run the command or SDK to fetch data will be blocked.  On the other hand, please consider the data in middleware, do you need to put everything in middleware? Maybe persist some in the database and only events in middleware.

### Reference

- [Principle of least privilege](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Principle_of_least_privilege)
- [Access Control in RabbitMQ](https://www.rabbitmq.com/access-control.html)
- [Actions, Resources, and Condition Keys for Amazon SQS](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/list_amazonsqs.html)
